# Lesson August 21th, 2024

## In class
### Variables
- string
- int (1,2,3) [basically integers]
- floats (0.13)
- boolean (True/False)
- list

### Input/Output
- input(), print()

### Loops
- for
- while

### Conditionals
- if
- switch case
- try except

## Homework
#### Notes from videos
### Inside a computer
The **motherboard** contains important pasts of the computer, including:
- **CPU (Central Processing Unit/ Processor)**: the brain of the computer (processes information and carries out commands)
* **Heat sink**: draws heat away from the CPU to prevent it from overheating
+ **RAM (Random Access Memory)**: short term memory, used for calculations, cannot store files because it's cleared when you turn off your computer
-**Hard drive**: long term storage, isn't cleared when computer is turned off. Some use a *hard disk drive* but a lot of the newer computers use *SSD (Solid-state Drive)* which are faster and more durable but also more expensive.
+ **Expansion slots**: allows user to upgrade by adding expansion cards (e.g. video cards for better graphics quality). Laptops don't usually have expansion slots.
- **Power supply unit**: to get power from the sockets into the computer.
* **Battery**: portable (usually in laptops)
+ **USB (Universal Serial Bus) ports**: connect with extensions like mouse, keyboards, printers, speakers... etc.


### RAM
RAM stands for Random Access Memory. It requires constant electrical power to store data. Hence, when the computer is turned off, RAM memory is erased. In order for data or program to run on the computer, it needs to be loaded into the RAM first. The data/program is originally stored on the hard drive then from there, it's loaded into the RAM. The CPU would be able to access the data or run the program once it's in the RAM. When there is not enough RAM to hold all the data that the CPU needs, some data are kept on the slower hard drive to make up for the low memory. This slows the process down because the data now has to go an extra way from hard drive to RAM then to CPU. To solve this problem, increase RAM because then there will be more memory capacity and there then won't be a need for constantly accessing the slower hard drive, resulting in a faster performing computer. (basically **more RAM** = computer runs **faster**) 
